docs/source/network-builder.rst, before:

Corda Network Builder
=====================

.. contents::

The Corda Network Builder is a tool for building Corda networks for testing purposes. It leverages Docker and
containers to abstract the complexity of managing a distributed network away from the user.

.. image:: _static/images/network-builder-v4.png

The network you build will either be made up of local ``docker`` nodes *or* of nodes spread across Azure
containers. More backends may be added in future. The tool is open source, so contributions to add more
destinations for the containers are welcome!

`Download the Corda Network Builder <https://ci-artifactory.corda.r3cev.com/artifactory/corda-releases/net/corda/corda-network-builder/4.0-corda/corda-network-builder-4.0-corda-executable.jar>`_.

.. _pre-requisites:

Prerequisites
-------------

* **Docker:** docker > 17.12.0-ce
* **Azure:** authenticated az-cli >= 2.0 (see: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest)

.. _creating_the_base_nodes:

Creating the base nodes
-----------------------

The network builder uses a set of nodes as the base for all other operations. A node is anything that satisfies
the following layout:

.. sourcecode:: shell

  -
   -- node.conf
   -- corda.jar
   -- cordapps/


An easy way to build a valid set of nodes is by running ``deployNodes``. In this document, we will be using
the output of running ``deployNodes`` for the `Example CorDapp <https://github.com/corda/cordapp-example>`_:

1. ``git clone https://github.com/corda/samples``
2. ``cd samples/cordapp-example``
3. ``./gradlew clean workflows-java:deployNodes``

Building a network via the command line
---------------------------------------

Starting the nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Quickstart Local Docker
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. ``cd workflows-java/build/nodes``
2. ``java -jar <path/to/network-builder-jar> -d .``

If you run ``docker ps`` to see the running containers, the following output should be displayed:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                       COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                                                                                    NAMES
    406868b4ba69        node-partyc:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     17 seconds ago      Up 16 seconds       0.0.0.0:32902->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32895->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32898->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32900->12222/tcp   partyc0
    4546a2fa8de7        node-partyb:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     17 seconds ago      Up 17 seconds       0.0.0.0:32896->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32899->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32901->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32903->12222/tcp   partyb0
    c8c44c515bdb        node-partya:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     17 seconds ago      Up 17 seconds       0.0.0.0:32894->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32897->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32892->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32893->12222/tcp   partya0
    cf7ab689f493        node-notary:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     30 seconds ago      Up 31 seconds       0.0.0.0:32888->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32889->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32890->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32891->12222/tcp   notary0

Quickstart Remote Azure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. ``cd kotlin-source/build/nodes``
2. ``java -jar <path/to/network-builder-jar> -b AZURE -d .``

.. note:: The Azure configuration is handled by the az-cli utility. See the :ref:`pre-requisites`.

.. _interacting_with_the_nodes:

Interacting with the nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can interact with the nodes by SSHing into them on the port that is mapped to 12222. For example, to SSH into the
``partya0`` node, you would run:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    ssh user1@localhost -p 32893
    Password authentication
    Password:


    Welcome to the Corda interactive shell.
    Useful commands include 'help' to see what is available, and 'bye' to shut down the node.

    >>> run networkMapSnapshot
    [
      { "addresses" : [ "partya0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyA, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701330613 },
      { "addresses" : [ "notary0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=Notary, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701305115 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partyc0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyC, L=Paris, C=FR" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701331608 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partyb0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyB, L=New York, C=US" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701330118 }
    ]

    >>>

Adding additional nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is possible to add additional nodes to the network by reusing the nodes you built earlier. For example, to add a
node by reusing the existing ``PartyA`` node, you would run:

``java -jar <network-builder-jar> --add "PartyA=O=PartyZ,L=London,C=GB"``

To confirm the node has been started correctly, run the following in the previously connected SSH session:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    Tue Jul 17 15:47:14 GMT 2018>>> run networkMapSnapshot
    [
      { "addresses" : [ "partya0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyA, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701330613 },
      { "addresses" : [ "notary0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=Notary, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701305115 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partyc0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyC, L=Paris, C=FR" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701331608 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partyb0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyB, L=New York, C=US" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701330118 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partya1:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyZ, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701630861 }
    ]

Building a network in Graphical User Mode
-----------------------------------------

The Corda Network Builder also provides a GUI for when automated interactions are not required. To launch it, run
``java -jar <path/to/network-builder-jar> -g``.

Starting the nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Click ``Open nodes ...`` and select the folder where you built your nodes in :ref:`creating_the_base_nodes` and
   click ``Open``
2. Select ``Local Docker`` or ``Azure``
3. Click ``Build``

.. note:: The Azure configuration is handled by the az-cli utility. See the :ref:`pre-requisites`.

All the nodes should eventually move to a ``Status`` of ``INSTANTIATED``. If you run ``docker ps`` from the terminal to
see the running containers, the following output should be displayed:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                       COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                                                                                    NAMES
    406868b4ba69        node-partyc:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     17 seconds ago      Up 16 seconds       0.0.0.0:32902->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32895->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32898->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32900->12222/tcp   partyc0
    4546a2fa8de7        node-partyb:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     17 seconds ago      Up 17 seconds       0.0.0.0:32896->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32899->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32901->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32903->12222/tcp   partyb0
    c8c44c515bdb        node-partya:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     17 seconds ago      Up 17 seconds       0.0.0.0:32894->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32897->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32892->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32893->12222/tcp   partya0
    cf7ab689f493        node-notary:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     30 seconds ago      Up 31 seconds       0.0.0.0:32888->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32889->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32890->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32891->12222/tcp   notary0

Interacting with the nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

See :ref:`interacting_with_the_nodes`.

Adding additional nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is possible to add additional nodes to the network by reusing the nodes you built earlier. For example, to add a
node by reusing the existing ``PartyA`` node, you would:

1. Select ``partya`` in the dropdown
2. Click ``Add Instance``
3. Specify the new node's X500 name and click ``OK``

If you click on ``partya`` in the pane, you should see an additional instance listed in the sidebar. To confirm the
node has been started correctly, run the following in the previously connected SSH session:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    Tue Jul 17 15:47:14 GMT 2018>>> run networkMapSnapshot
    [
      { "addresses" : [ "partya0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyA, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701330613 },
      { "addresses" : [ "notary0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=Notary, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701305115 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partyc0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyC, L=Paris, C=FR" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701331608 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partyb0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyB, L=New York, C=US" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701330118 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partya1:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyZ, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701630861 }
    ]

Shutting down the nodes
-----------------------

Run ``docker kill $(docker ps -q)`` to kill all running Docker processes.

Commit message:

Dos - run flow to verify running nodes inside Docker.

docs/source/network-builder.rst, after:

Corda Network Builder
=====================

.. contents::

The Corda Network Builder is a tool for building Corda networks for testing purposes. It leverages Docker and
containers to abstract the complexity of managing a distributed network away from the user.

.. image:: _static/images/network-builder-v4.png

The network you build will either be made up of local ``docker`` nodes *or* of nodes spread across Azure
containers. More backends may be added in future. The tool is open source, so contributions to add more
destinations for the containers are welcome!

`Download the Corda Network Builder <https://ci-artifactory.corda.r3cev.com/artifactory/corda-releases/net/corda/corda-network-builder/4.0-corda/corda-network-builder-4.0-corda-executable.jar>`_.

.. _pre-requisites:

Prerequisites
-------------

* **Docker:** docker > 17.12.0-ce
* **Azure:** authenticated az-cli >= 2.0 (see: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest)

.. _creating_the_base_nodes:

Creating the base nodes
-----------------------

The network builder uses a set of nodes as the base for all other operations. A node is anything that satisfies
the following layout:

.. sourcecode:: shell

  -
   -- node.conf
   -- corda.jar
   -- cordapps/


An easy way to build a valid set of nodes is by running ``deployNodes``. In this document, we will be using
the output of running ``deployNodes`` for the `Example CorDapp <https://github.com/corda/cordapp-example>`_:

1. ``git clone https://github.com/corda/samples``
2. ``cd samples/cordapp-example``
3. ``./gradlew clean workflows-java:deployNodes``

Building a network via the command line
---------------------------------------

Starting the nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Quickstart Local Docker
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. ``cd workflows-java/build/nodes``
2. ``java -jar <path/to/network-builder-jar> -d .``

If you run ``docker ps`` to see the running containers, the following output should be displayed:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                       COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                                                                                    NAMES
    406868b4ba69        node-partyc:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     17 seconds ago      Up 16 seconds       0.0.0.0:32902->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32895->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32898->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32900->12222/tcp   partyc0
    4546a2fa8de7        node-partyb:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     17 seconds ago      Up 17 seconds       0.0.0.0:32896->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32899->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32901->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32903->12222/tcp   partyb0
    c8c44c515bdb        node-partya:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     17 seconds ago      Up 17 seconds       0.0.0.0:32894->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32897->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32892->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32893->12222/tcp   partya0
    cf7ab689f493        node-notary:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     30 seconds ago      Up 31 seconds       0.0.0.0:32888->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32889->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32890->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32891->12222/tcp   notary0

Depending on you machine performance, even after all containers are reported as running,
the underlying Corda nodes may be still starting and SSHing to a node may be not available immediately.

Quickstart Remote Azure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. ``cd kotlin-source/build/nodes``
2. ``java -jar <path/to/network-builder-jar> -b AZURE -d .``

.. note:: The Azure configuration is handled by the az-cli utility. See the :ref:`pre-requisites`.

.. _interacting_with_the_nodes:

Interacting with the nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can interact with the nodes by SSHing into them on the port that is mapped to 12222. For example, to SSH into the
``partya0`` node, you would run:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    ssh user1@localhost -p 32893
    Password authentication
    Password:


    Welcome to the Corda interactive shell.
    Useful commands include 'help' to see what is available, and 'bye' to shut down the node.

    >>> run networkMapSnapshot
    [
      { "addresses" : [ "partya0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyA, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 4, "serial" : 1532701330613 },
      { "addresses" : [ "notary0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=Notary, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 4, "serial" : 1532701305115 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partyc0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyC, L=Paris, C=FR" ], "platformVersion" : 4, "serial" : 1532701331608 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partyb0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyB, L=New York, C=US" ], "platformVersion" : 4, "serial" : 1532701330118 }
    ]

    >>>

You can also run a flow from cordapp-example: ``flow start com.example.flow.ExampleFlow$Initiator iouValue: 20, otherParty: "PartyB"``

To verify it, connect  itno ``partyb0`` and run ``run vaultQuery contractStateType: "com.example.state.IOUState"``
It should return one state form the vault.


Adding additional nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is possible to add additional nodes to the network by reusing the nodes you built earlier. For example, to add a
node by reusing the existing ``PartyA`` node, you would run:

``java -jar <network-builder-jar> --add "PartyA=O=PartyZ,L=London,C=GB"``

To confirm the node has been started correctly, run the following in the previously connected SSH session:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    Tue Jul 17 15:47:14 GMT 2018>>> run networkMapSnapshot
    [
      { "addresses" : [ "partya0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyA, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 4, "serial" : 1532701330613 },
      { "addresses" : [ "notary0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=Notary, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 4, "serial" : 1532701305115 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partyc0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyC, L=Paris, C=FR" ], "platformVersion" : 4, "serial" : 1532701331608 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partyb0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyB, L=New York, C=US" ], "platformVersion" : 4, "serial" : 1532701330118 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partya1:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyZ, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 4, "serial" : 1532701630861 }
    ]

Building a network in Graphical User Mode
-----------------------------------------

The Corda Network Builder also provides a GUI for when automated interactions are not required. To launch it, run
``java -jar <path/to/network-builder-jar> -g``.

Starting the nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Click ``Open nodes ...`` and select jar the folder where you built your nodes in :ref:`creating_the_base_nodes` and
   click ``Open``
2. Select ``Local Docker`` or ``Azure``
3. Click ``Build``

.. note:: The Azure configuration is handled by the az-cli utility. See the :ref:`pre-requisites`.

All the nodes should eventually move to a ``Status`` of ``INSTANTIATED``. If you run ``docker ps`` from the terminal to
see the running containers, the following output should be displayed:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                       COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                                                                                    NAMES
    406868b4ba69        node-partyc:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     17 seconds ago      Up 16 seconds       0.0.0.0:32902->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32895->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32898->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32900->12222/tcp   partyc0
    4546a2fa8de7        node-partyb:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     17 seconds ago      Up 17 seconds       0.0.0.0:32896->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32899->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32901->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32903->12222/tcp   partyb0
    c8c44c515bdb        node-partya:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     17 seconds ago      Up 17 seconds       0.0.0.0:32894->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32897->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32892->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32893->12222/tcp   partya0
    cf7ab689f493        node-notary:corda-network   "/run-corda.sh"     30 seconds ago      Up 31 seconds       0.0.0.0:32888->10003/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32889->10005/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32890->10020/tcp, 0.0.0.0:32891->12222/tcp   notary0

Interacting with the nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

See :ref:`interacting_with_the_nodes`.

Adding additional nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is possible to add additional nodes to the network by reusing the nodes you built earlier. For example, to add a
node by reusing the existing ``PartyA`` node, you would:

1. Select ``partya`` in the dropdown
2. Click ``Add Instance``
3. Specify the new node's X500 name and click ``OK``

If you click on ``partya`` in the pane, you should see an additional instance listed in the sidebar. To confirm the
node has been started correctly, run the following in the previously connected SSH session:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    Tue Jul 17 15:47:14 GMT 2018>>> run networkMapSnapshot
    [
      { "addresses" : [ "partya0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyA, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701330613 },
      { "addresses" : [ "notary0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=Notary, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701305115 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partyc0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyC, L=Paris, C=FR" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701331608 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partyb0:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyB, L=New York, C=US" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701330118 },
      { "addresses" : [ "partya1:10020" ], "legalIdentitiesAndCerts" : [ "O=PartyZ, L=London, C=GB" ], "platformVersion" : 3, "serial" : 1532701630861 }
    ]

Shutting down the nodes
-----------------------

Run ``docker kill $(docker ps -q)`` to kill all running Docker processes.
